ADR for `DesignStage` (#1192)
Fusion-Power-Plant-Framework/bluemira: documentation/developer/adr/0002-record-design-stage.md

# 2. `DesignStage` architectural decision

Date: 2022-06-30
Updated: 2022-10-24

## Status

Completed

## Context

At present we have a `design_stage` decorator which wraps methods in the `Reactor` base
class. The `["run", "read", "mock"]` logic is presently handled by `Builder`s and `Solver`s.

We want `Builder` to effectively only return a `Component` or tree of `Component`.

We want `Builder` to be agnostic of the design problem and of `["run", "read", "mock"]` logic.

We want `Builder` to have a minimum set of `Parameters`.

`design_stage` presently only handles printing logic for entry and exit to an operation.

Options:
* Do nothing
* Add a `DesignStage` class which handles the `["run", "read", "mock"]` logic for `Builder`

* Should every `DesignStage` be a `Solver` where `["run", "read", "mock"]` logic is also

> handled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
handled?
```

## Decision

We add a `DesignStage` class to handles the  `["run", "read", "mock"]` logic for
`Builder` only.

We will trial the two options above taking e.g. the EUDEMO `PlasmaBuilder` as an example
to inform our decision.

#### 2022-10-24

> The `Designer` (previously called the `DesignStage`) is in charge of solving a minimal design problem.

Reviewer: Something about 'minimal design problem' doesn't feel right here. The design problem isn't minimal - it may be very complex. 

The designer generates a minimal representation of some geometry. So, for example, if it were designing a straight line in 2D, it would output two numbers, as that's all we need to define the geometry.

In its simplest form the output of the `Designer`s `execute` method is an input to the `Builder`.
A `Designer` can have different run modes as described above but by default only needs a run method to function.

With user inputs and the output of the `execute` method the `Builder` creates the CAD for a given `Component`.

> The `Builder` will output a `ComponentManager` containing the `Component` built by the `Builder`.

Reviewer: Is it worth saying here that this is what we have at time of writing, but we plan for `Builder`s to output a `Component`?

Reviewer 2: Done

Both a `Designer` and `Builder` need their own `ParameterFrame` to define the `Parameters` needed.

> A `ParameterFrame` should only be needed at this level and a `Designer` and `Builder` are in charge to update the

Reviewer: I'm not sure what 'at this level' means in this context

Reviewer 2: Hopefully that makes more sense now

> A `ParameterFrame` should only be needed at this level and a `Designer` and `Builder` are in charge to update the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `ParameterFrame` should only be needed at this level and a `Designer` and `Builder` are responsible for updating the
```

`ParameterFrame` where appropriate. Lower level functionality should use the `Parameter` value as input.

> Further work will be undertaken so that `Solver` can inherit from `Designer` functioning as a multistage `Designer`

Reviewer: I think this makes sense, we should get an issue open to investigate (if there isn't one already that I'm missing). A change like this should probably go in before v1.0

```suggestion
Further work will be undertaken so that `Solver` can inherit from `Designer` functioning as a multistage `Designer`.
```

Reviewer 2: Issue opened: #1611

## Consequences

> The separation of `Designer` and `Builder` mechanics required a rewrite of the existing complex reactor design.

Reviewer: We should add here that a reactor workflow author will often need to define a `Designer` and a `Builder` for a component, where they used to only define a `Builder`. As well as a `ParameterFrame` for each

Reviewer 2: Done

handled?

## Decision

We add a `DesignStage` class to handles the  `["run", "read", "mock"]` logic for
`Builder` only.

We will trial the two options above taking e.g. the EUDEMO `PlasmaBuilder` as an example
to inform our decision.

#### 2022-10-24

The `Designer` (previously called the `DesignStage`) is in charge of solving a minimal design problem.
In its simplest form the output of the `Designer`s `execute` method is an input to the `Builder`.
A `Designer` can have different run modes as described above but by default only needs a run method to function.

With user inputs and the output of the `execute` method the `Builder` creates the CAD for a given `Component`.
At the time of writing the `Builder` will output a `ComponentManager` containing the `Component` built by the `Builder`.
We plan for a `Builder` to output a `Component` to allow flexibility in `ComponentManager` definition.
The output of the `Builder` and possibly some output of the `Designer` would then be used to intialise a `ComponentManager`.

Both a `Designer` and `Builder` need their own `ParameterFrame` to define the `Parameters` needed.

> A `ParameterFrame` should only be needed in the `Designer` or `Builder` and external functions should have the relevant `Parameter` values passed in directly.

Reviewer: Should we use '_and/or_' here, because this makes it sound as if only one of them should have a `ParameterFrame` (at least to me)? 

> _A `ParameterFrame` should only be needed in the `Designer` or `Builder`_

And/or `Reactor`?

Reviewer 2: unsure about what I've just written in [7bd94ca](https://github.com/Fusion-Power-Plant-Framework/bluemira/pull/1192/commits/7bd94ca8db3cf98c16599ddbbcafe869d7109113), let me know

Date: 2022-06-30
Updated: 2022-10-24

## Status

Completed

## Context

At present we have a `design_stage` decorator which wraps methods in the `Reactor` base
class. The `["run", "read", "mock"]` logic is presently handled by `Builder`s and `Solver`s.

We want `Builder` to effectively only return a `Component` or tree of `Component`.

We want `Builder` to be agnostic of the design problem and of `["run", "read", "mock"]` logic.

We want `Builder` to have a minimum set of `Parameters`.

`design_stage` presently only handles printing logic for entry and exit to an operation.

Options:
* Do nothing
* Add a `DesignStage` class which handles the `["run", "read", "mock"]` logic for `Builder`

* Should every `DesignStage` be a `Solver` where `["run", "read", "mock"]` logic is also
handled?

## Decision

We add a `DesignStage` class to handles the  `["run", "read", "mock"]` logic for
`Builder` only.

We will trial the two options above taking e.g. the EUDEMO `PlasmaBuilder` as an example
to inform our decision.

#### 2022-10-24

The `Designer` (previously called the `DesignStage`) is in charge of creating the minimal representation of the geometry.

> This minimal representation could be anything from a single number to an 2D wire of the centreline of a `Component`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This minimal representation could be anything from a single number to a 2D wire.
```
